OK now let's start moving our components into their own folders.
So the first thing I'm gonna show you is actually our new folder structure.
So we're actually going to have two folders one of four components which is going to hold all of our
reusable components and one for our page components.
So what's a page.
Well when you think about our home page it's also a component but it's a component that we're probably
not going to use more than once.
So any page that we make.
I'm going to make a new component folder for it inside of our pages.
Separate it from our reusable components so let's begin with our home page component and we're gonna
do component touch s x and we're gonna move our code here into our home page.
And then we're also going to copy our styles and we're just going to move this into our home page as
well
now.
We don't need this anymore and we have to update our app dot j ust to point to the new location of our
home page component so it's two pages home page combat combat.
If we save and if we make sure to save this as well if we go back to our app we should see everything
is the same OK.
Now let's start moving our directory and our menu item into their own components so let's first start
with our menu item component so let's make a menu item folder in our components folder and then make
a menu item dock component dodgy OSX.
Now we're also going to need those menu item styles.
So let's make a menu item.
Dot styles dot SAS file as well let's copy over our menu item styles into our menu item styles that
CSF and then in our US let's import react from react and far menu item.
We're going to use a functional component because we don't really need our component to hold any state
at least not for now.
So let's start with a functional component so let's do menu item equals a function that returns to us
what we had in our home page component.
So let's just copy this over
we probably want to be able to dynamically generate title by passing a title into our menu component.
Right as a props.
So instead of doing something like props title like this we might also need some other properties to
be passed in if we look at our application we're gonna see that each one of these has a different image.
Right.
So what we can do is we can actually de structure the title off of our props for now and then we can
just populate our component with that D structure value of title from our props.
This is the exact same thing as writing props that title except we're pulling that title value off of
our props and then setting it to this title value inside of our function so we can use it whenever we
want.
And then let's export out our menu item and now we have our menu items now let's make our directory
component so let's make a directory folder and inside we will make our directory dot component dot Jess
X and just like earlier we'll also need a style sheet for this directory DOS styles dot s so let's copy
over our home page styles for our directory now because we've got the menu item we don't need this anymore
so let's just get rid of it but let's copy over our directory menu code into our directory s and then
let's import react from.
React and this one will need to be a class component because we do need to store the state value of
those menu items that we want to pass and create our menu items with.
Right.
So just like when we did our monster's Rolodex and we had that card list component.
This one is going to have a directory with a state value of those menu items.
So let's make a class of directory that extends Reactor Component and remember earlier the first time
we were actually importing it as a regular import from react.
But this component class actually also exists on the react namespace that we import from react.
So we don't even need to do an additional import.
We can just do react on component so inside of our directory class we need that constructor right.
We always need our constructor and inside of our constructor we need to call super so that we pull in
all the things we need from our ReACT component into our class.
And then we're going to set our state value right now because we're populating menu items.
Each of these menu items is kind of like a section right.
So I'm actually just going to call it section and that's gonna be an array value that I have here for
you in a different file and what it is is it's just an array of objects that have a title and an image
euro and the image you are always going to point to an image that stored somewhere else online for these
images so inside of our render we want to return what we had in our home page.
So let's go back to our homepage and let's copy this directory menu because that's all we really need
and now we want to map through our sections.
Right and we want to pass these section objects into our menu item so that you can create the menu items.
But let's also import our menu item component from our menu item component folder
and now we know that we have to pass in a function to our map call.
Right.
So in our map call of our array we're gonna get a section and what we want to render is the menu item
so there are many ways we can pass the props in right.
We can just.
We know that we want a title right.
So if we wanted to pass the title we could easily just do section title but what we want to do is be
cut.
We know we need this value.
This title value.
We know we need the image URL and we want the ideas for our key as well.
Right what we can do instead of doing this which we have a type section every time we can actually D
structure all these values off of our section.
So we're going to get the title we're gonna get the image URL and we're gonna get the idea and now we
can just do this
and now we have our ideas and our title going in to our menu item so let's make sure to export our Directory
OK.
And then we got to make sure also to bring our style sheet in.
So I think I didn't do that for our menu item either.
So let's do that as well for our menu item and then we got to go into our home page and replace our
old code with our new components so let's go and import in our directory
from
our components folder our directory directory component and now we can replace all of this with just
our directory
and if we go back we should see that everything is the same awesome.
OK now what about our images.
Well you remember in our directory we had that image euro.
So let's just pass that also into our menu item
so we're gonna pass this image URL value into our menu item and then in our menu item component we are
going to actually do something different.
So react actually gives every one of these HDMI Mel markup elements another property called style and
style takes an object that has prop values equal to C Ss values you want to apply to this element.
So what we want to do is we want to set a background image right.
And these CSF values instead of being the kabob case that we're used to seeing here right with the dashes
is going to be in camel case and we want to set it equal to the image you are L that we just passed
into this component from our directory.
What we got do in order to make this work and see RSS which is we have to actually pass it as you are.
L With the string interpolated value of image row.
And this is really awesome because this allows us to dynamically make styles on our components which
is super convenient because if we want it if this image were all changed right our CSF value changes
as well.
And that's really cool.
So we just have to update another style in our actual style sheet regarding what this background image
URL is going to be.
Right.
So we always want our image you are ls to have that background image be centered and covering the whole
div.
So let's go into our menu item and let's do background position.
Right.
We want it to always be center and then we want the background size to be cover.
So we want our background image to cover the whole thing.
And then the position should always be in the center.
And now if we look we see that our component has our images but if we look at this this is a little
bigger as well right than these ones so we know that these two need to be a larger size.
So how do we do this.
Well typically in normal CSX we could just add a class that would tell this component that it's larger
so it should have size related to that.
Well we can do that as well with react.
So inside of our directory what we can do is we can actually pass in a size value which is equal to
large.
Right.
And then we do that for our last two for our men's and our women's sections and then we can just pass
that size value also into our component
and now on our menu item component we can also dynamically add in our class name value right here.
Right.
Because we are getting this size value.
If it's nothing it's not going to render anything but if it is present then we want to add it to our
class name.
So let's just string interpolate in that value with this sorry with size.
All right.
And then we also always wanted to have what we had earlier which was menu item and now if we look at
our core menu item code we also gonna add in that style for it by doing Ampersand sign.
So if our menu item also has dots large then we want to give it a larger height of 3 engine 80 pixels
and now if we save and we go back we see that our images these ones are large but these ones stay the
same.
Right.
They haven't changed so that's one of the great things we can do with building out are components is
that we can use these properties and we can write JavaScript to give them a dynamically changing value
so that it lends us a lot more flexibility when we're building and styling our components OK.
Now in the next section we're going to style this menu item a little bit more with some of those transitions
and some of these colors that we see in our final product.